[8946] update contract key uniqueness caveats (#927)
digital-asset/docs.daml.com: docs/2.10.0/docs/canton/usermanual/contract_keys.rst

Caveats to keep in mind are:

- Your application must ensure that you only ever create one ``Generator`` contract (e.g., by creating one when initializing the application for the first time).
- All commands that create the ``Keyed`` contract must be issued by the maintainer. In particular, do not delegate choices on the ``Generator`` contract to other parties, because those parties may not have full visibility into all the ``Keyed`` contracts and ``lookupByKey`` may therefore wrongly return ``None``.
- You must not create ``Keyed`` contracts by any other means other than exercising the ``Generate`` choice.
- The ``Generate`` choice as shown above will not abort the command if the contract with the given key already exists, it will just return the existing contract.
  However, this is easy to change.
- This approach relies on a particular internal behavior of Canton (as discussed below).
  While we don't expect the behavior to change, we do not currently make strong guarantees that it will not change.

> - If the participant is connected to multiple sync domains in future versions of Canton, the ``Generator`` contract will not guarantee uniqueness, as explained below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the participant is connected to multiple sync domains in future versions of Canton, the ``Generator`` contract cannot guarantee uniqueness, as explained below.
```
We don't use future tense versions of 'will' per the Google developer style guide.

>   However, this is easy to change.

Reviewer 2: add a short explanation why delegation does not work as stated further above, as the delegated parties may not see the Keyed contract.

Author: Done.

- This approach relies on a particular internal behavior of Canton (as discussed below).
  While we don't expect the behavior to change, we do not currently make strong guarantees that it will not change.

> - If the participant is connected to multiple sync domains, the approach will fail in future versions of Canton.

Reviewer 2: how about a short description why it will fail, something like, "because the Generator contract may be reassigned to another sync domain without the Keyed contract being reassigned, which will return None by lookupByKey".

Author: Not reassigning the `Keyed` contract is not the problem here. This will break because of out-of-order publishing of events across domains. I'll add a sentence.

> - If the participant is connected to multiple sync domains, the approach will fail in future versions of Canton.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Connecting a participant to multiple sync domains may not work in future versions of Canton.
```

>   To be future-proof, you should only use it in settings when your participant is connected to a single sync domain.

Reviewer: What is "it" in this context?

Author: I've rewritten the two sentences. Hopefully they're clearer now.

Thus, all accepted commands will be evaluated sequentially by the Ledger API server.
As the server writes the results of accepted commands to its database atomically, the ``Keyed`` contract created by one command that uses ``Generate`` will either be visible to the following command that uses ``Generate``, or it will have been archived by some other, unrelated command in between.

If the participant is connected to multiple sync domains, the ``Generator`` contract can be reassigned between those sync domains.
Around such reassignments, it can happen that the Ledger API server already starts processing a command on the target sync domain before it has completely processed everything prior to the reassignment on the source sync domain.

> So the processing on the target sync domain does not necessarily see all key ``Keyed`` contracts created by predecessors of the current ``Generator`` contract and therefore may create contracts with the same key multiple times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The processing on the target sync domain does not necessarily see all key ``Keyed`` contracts created by predecessors of the current ``Generator`` contract, and therefore may create contracts with the same key multiple times.
```

Ensuring uniqueness with multiple participants is more complicated, and adds more restrictions on how you operate on the contract.

When there is a single maintainer hosted on multiple participant nodes,
the ``Generator`` approach works only under the following additional restriction:

> - The ``Generator`` contract is never used with explicit disclosure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The ``Generator`` contract is never used with explicit disclosure for the following reasons:
```

- Before creating a contract with the key ``k`` for the first time, your application must create the matching ``KeyState`` contract with ``allocated`` set to ``False``.
  Such a contract must be created at most once.
  Most likely, you will want to choose a "primary" participant on which you create such contracts.
- ``Keyed`` contracts must never be created or archived directly,
  as this would break the synchronization with the corresponding ``KeyState`` contract.
  Instead, you must use the ``Allocate`` and ``Deallocate`` choices on the ``KeyState`` contract.

>   The only exception are the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The only exceptions are the following:
```

  
  * A consuming choices on the ``Keyed`` contract that immediately recreate a ``Keyed`` contract with the same key.
    
  * Ledger API commands that archive a ``Keyed`` contract and recreate a ``Keyed`` contract with the same key.
    
- Do not delegate consuming choices on the ``Keyed`` contract other than those that immediately recreate a ``Keyed`` contract with the same key.
  Instead, delegate appropriate adaptations of ``Deallocate`` on the corresponding ``KeyState`` contract.
  This ensures the above restriction that ``Keyed`` contracts are created and archived only through the ``KeyState`` contract choices.

>   Non-consuming choices on ``Keyed`` contracts can be delegated without restrictions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Non-consuming choices on ``Keyed`` contracts can be delegated without restrictions, 
```

>   And so can all the choices on ``KeyState``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  and so can all the choices on ``KeyState``.
```

- Before creating a contract with the key ``k`` for the first time, your application must create the matching ``KeyState`` contract with ``allocated`` set to ``False``.
  Such a contract must be created at most once.

>   Most likely, you will want to choose a "primary" participant on which you create such contracts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In most cases, you should choose a "primary" participant on which you create such contracts.
```

> - ``Keyed`` contracts must never be created or archived directly,
>   as this would break the synchronization with the corresponding ``KeyState`` contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  With a small number of exceptions, ``Keyed`` contracts must never be created or archived directly;
  this would break the synchronization with the corresponding ``KeyState`` contract.
```

  Instead, you must use the ``Allocate`` and ``Deallocate`` choices on the ``KeyState`` contract.

>   The only exceptions are the following:

Reviewer 2: because of the atomicity guarantees of daml transactions

  
  * A consuming choices on the ``Keyed`` contract that immediately recreate a ``Keyed`` contract with the same key.
    
  * Ledger API commands that archive a ``Keyed`` contract and recreate a ``Keyed`` contract with the same key.
    
- Do not delegate consuming choices on the ``Keyed`` contract other than those that immediately recreate a ``Keyed`` contract with the same key.
  Instead, delegate appropriate adaptations of ``Deallocate`` on the corresponding ``KeyState`` contract.
  This ensures the above restriction that ``Keyed`` contracts are created and archived only through the ``KeyState`` contract choices.
  Non-consuming choices on ``Keyed`` contracts can be delegated without restrictions,
  and so can all the choices on ``KeyState``.
  
A usage example script is below.

.. literalinclude:: /canton/includes/mirrored/community/common/src/main/daml/CantonExamples/ContractKeys.daml
   :language: daml
   :start-after: BEGIN_EX_STATE
   :end-before: END_EX_STATE

> The ``KeyState`` approach also works in the singe maintainer, single participant setting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ``KeyState`` approach also works in the single maintainer, single participant setting.
```
